# The Security Champion Framework

The Security Champion framework exists as a measuring stick and a roadmap. As a measuring stick, the framework allows leaders to measure how well their champions program performs. As a roadmap, the leader can use the measurements as input and build a plan to improve their program by applying updates towards a higher framework level.

## Key terms to know

A security champion is a security-passionate person engaged with your security team, interested in expanding their knowledge and experience with security.

The security community is a virtual team of engaged developers, architects, software managers, testers, and similar roles (product adjacent) that extends the experience and knowledge of a central security team deeply into product/development teams.

## What's in a name?

Various names apply to the people that make up a security champion program. For example, organizations use different naming schemes for Champions, Advocates, Guild Members, Ninjas, and Agents.

There is nothing in a name. Instead, call the people within your program by any of the monikers provided. Do call them something, but choosing the perfect phrase to describe the people does not define the success of your program.

For purposes of the framework, the word champion is universal. 

## The need for champions

Security champions are necessary because most security teams need more resources to meet security demands. The security department needs more time/energy/people to perform security for all. They have the knowledge and expertise but need scalability.

Each year, BSIMM asks their member companies how many developers and security team members they have. From BSIMM 12, the ratio was one security person to every one hundred and thirty-five developers. This ratio demonstrates the need for security champions. BSIMM members take security seriously enough to spend money on a consultant to analyze their stance. Non-BSIMM companies are likely at an even higher ratio. The higher percentage is why Security Champions are needed -- there need to be more security team members to do all the work.

## The successful champion

There are four facets to the successful champion experience.

First, consider foundational knowledge. Foundational is the knowledge about application security, from vocabulary to return on investment and the business case. Foundational knowledge answers the why of application security and the things everyone needs to understand.

Second, a spark of passion. A spark of security passion is vital. Rather than forcing a champion to volunteer, the best case is a champion that steps forward because they have a slight interest in security. The champion program can fan that little interest into a security flame.

Third, understand/acknowledge attacks. Champions must realize the depth of modern attacks and recognize that what they build is under attack.

Fourth, utilize tools and processes. Champions must follow the defined procedures to enhance security, like Secure Development Lifecycle, and be the eyes and ears that execute and interpret the results of the tools.

## The value for the champion

Many security champion programs focus on the company's value instead of thinking about the champion. Flip the table and consider what's in it for your champions. Make it about them.

Here are some examples of items that can provide value for the champion:

* Advanced training + knowledge and degrees.
* Exclusive learning events.
* Management/Executive visibility and exposure to successful projects that improve security.
* Acknowledgement and recognition as someone who makes company products safer for Customers.
* Cross-organizational collaboration -- networking with other like-minded security people.
* Career advancement.
* Career pivot into security.

## The company's return on a champion program

The company does receive many benefits from the program. Consider these ideas for the value provided to the organization.

* Specialized security resources without additional headcount investment.
* A population of employees is satisfied with a program dedicated to their interests.
* Integrated security coaches within functional teams.
* Contributes to security ROI.
* Visibility as an organization that takes security seriously.

## Overview of the Security Champion Framework

Five high-level areas divide the framework, with one to four sub-areas within each area.

| Area | Description |
|:---|:---|
| Planning | Planning includes the activities needed to scope and build a strategy. |
| People | People include recruiting, retaining, capturing commitment, and onboarding new champions. |
| Marketing | Marketing includes the branding of the program and communication plans. |
| Execution | Execution includes the program pillars, coaching, education, and globalization efforts. |
| Measurement | Measurement includes metrics for demonstrating the value generated by the program. |

## Other Security Champion Resources

* Security Champion Program Success Guide -- https://securitychampionsuccessguide.org/

## Contributors

* Chris Romeo, Project Leader